---
locations: 
title: 05 2014.04.10 - Witness in Alan Smith murder trial commits suicide
date created: Tuesday, August 29th 2023, 5:20:57 pm
date modified: Sunday, September 17th 2023, 9:18:31 pm
---

# 05 2014.04.10 - Witness in Alan Smith murder trial commits suicide

[[./2014-04-10 Thursday April 10th 2014|2014-04-10 Thursday April 10th 2014]]

<https://www.bothell-reporter.com/news/witness-in-alan-smith-murder-trial-commits-suicide/>

 

[[./02 Love Thai|Love Thai]] and [[./01 Alan Smith|Alan Smith]]

The girlfriend of [[./01 Alan Smith|Alan Smith]], the [[./04 Bothell|Bothell]] man accused of killing his estranged wife early last year, died [[./2014-04-08 Monday April 8th 2014|2014-04-08 Monday April 8th 2014]] in [Seattle](geo:47.6038321,-122.330062). ^1lccy

According to the King County Medical Examiner's Office, [[./02 Love Thai|Love Thai]] committed suicide.  
Marks around her neck indicate she died from a rope or something around her neck. ^oongz

Thai lived at Pacific Court in [Tukwila](geo:47.4627356,-122.2559156). The [[./05 Apartment|apartment]] manager could not confirm if [[./02 Love Thai|Love Thai]] had died in her home.

[[./02 Love Thai|Love Thai]] told the _Reporter_ in [[./2013-07 July 2013|2013-07 July 2013]] she was pregnant with [[./01 Alan Smith|Alan Smith]]'s child and there was an ultrasound photo posted to her personal Facebook account around the same time. ^4148p  
The medical examiner's office could not confirm if [[./02 Love Thai|Love Thai]] was still pregnant at the time of her death. ^taqjm

Lawyers for [[./01 Alan Smith|Alan Smith]] asked a judge to push back his murder trial this week so they could have more time to prepare.  
[[./01 Alan Smith|Alan Smith]]'s trial date was moved from [[./2014-05-02 Friday May 2nd 2014|2014-05-02 Friday May 2nd 2014]] to [[./2014-06-13 Friday June 13th 2014|2014-06-13 Friday June 13th 2014]], according to Craig Matheson, senior deputy prosecuting attorney at Snohomish County Prosectors Office. ^hb6x1

"While certainly tragic, I don't think [[./02 Love Thai|Love Thai]]'s death will affect the trial at all," Matheson said.

[[./01%20Alan%20Smith.md#.md#|Alan Smith]], who plead not guilty in [[./2013-07 July 2013|2013-07 July 2013]], [is accused of killing his estranged wife](http://www.bothell-reporter.com/news/194405941.html) last February and sits in the Snohomish County Jail on $1 million bail. [[./01%20Alan%20Smith.md#.md#|Alan Smith]] is accused of murdering his wife [[./01 Susann Smith|Susann Smith]], who was found on[[./2013-02-12 Tuesday February 12th 2013|2013-02-12 Tuesday February 12th 2013]], face down, beaten and drown to death in the bathtub of her [[./04 Bothell|Bothell]] home while her two [[./07 Children|kids]](./01%20Alan%20Smith.md#) were away, according to court documents. She had defensive wounds on her hands and arms, a fractured skull, and 19 separate blunt force strikes, according to court documents. She had to be identified by her dental records.

[[./01%20Alan%20Smith.md#.md#|Alan Smith]] [moved back into the home](http://www.bothell-reporter.com/news/204131081.html) with [[./02 Love Thai|Love Thai]] in [[./2013-04 April 2013|2013-04 April 2013]] and had hopes of regaining custody of his two young [[./07 Children|children]], who had been taken by Washington State [[./08 CPS|Child Protective Services]](./01%20Alan%20Smith.md#.md#). ^qdarf

[Alan Smith and Thai seemed to have a rocky relationship](http://www.bothell-reporter.com/news/208901791.html) as police were called to [[./01%20Alan%20Smith.md#.md#|Alan Smith]]'s home for various incidents during May 2013, including a report of [[./01 Alan Smith|Alan Smith]] and [[./02 Love Thai|Love Thai]] having sex in the front yard and for a domestic disturbance.

[When Alan Smith was charged](http://www.bothell-reporter.com/news/213571071.html)[[./2013-06-28 Friday June 28th 2013|2013-06-28 Friday June 28th 2013]], he said his life was in "chaos." He stated that he was over his head "with [[./02 Love Thai|Love Thai]] and her mental issues," according to charging documents. ^9wx16

When [[./01%20Alan%20Smith.md#.md#|Alan Smith]] appeared in court [[./2013-09-23 Monday September 23rd 2013|2013-09-23 Monday September 23rd 2013]] on a misdemeanor charge of obstruction, [[./02 Love Thai|Love Thai]], was there to defend him. ^bt6bq  
At the time, the two lived together in the home where [[./01 Susann Smith|Susann Smith]] was killed.

"I feel absolutely safe — absolutely. We argue, we throw things, but we don't hurt each other," [[./02 Love Thai|Love Thai]] said at the time.

She also believed that [[./01 Alan Smith|Alan Smith]] was capable of killing.

"I don't know what his threshold is," she said. "Is the possibility and the capability there? Yes."

But she said she was in love and trusted [[./01 Alan Smith|Alan Smith]] completely.

"He said he did not do it," [[./02 Love Thai|Love Thai]] said. "So, I stand by him and the truth will always set people free."

[[./01 Alan Smith|Alan Smith]] and his attorney could not be reached for comment.
