---
title: 03 2013.05.06 - Bicycle could be clue in Bothell woman’s killing
date created: Tuesday, August 29th 2023, 5:19:49 pm
date modified: Sunday, September 17th 2023, 9:18:30 pm
---

# 03 2013.05.06 - Bicycle could be clue in Bothell woman's killing

[../../10-to-19-Case-Dates/13-Investigation-Dates/2013-05-06 Monday May 6th 2013](./2013-05-06%20Monday%20May%206th%202013.md#)

<https://www.heraldnet.com/news/bicycle-could-be-clue-in-bothell-womans-killing/>

BOTHELL — The investigation of a [Bothell](./04%20Bothell.md#) woman's [February killing](http://www.heraldnet.com/article/20130430/NEWS01/704309813/0/SEARCH) now appears to focus on a [bicycle](./01%20Bicycle.md#) somebody apparently didn't want.

[Bothell](./04%20Bothell.md#.md#) detectives are examining whether the abandoned [bicycle](./01%20Bicycle.md#.md#), recovered by police March 1, was used by whoever fatally bludgeoned and stabbed [Susann Smith](./01%20Susann%20Smith.md#) inside her home on [2013-02-12-Tuesday-February-12th-2013](./2013-02-12%20Tuesday%20February%2012th%202013.md#). ^f5imz

"Your affiant believes that if the [bicycle](./01%20Bicycle.md#.md#.md#.md#) was used as a means of transportation to and from the crime scene, trace evidence may be present on the [bicycle](./01%20Bicycle.md#.md#.md#)," [Bothell](./04%20Bothell.md#.md#.md#) detective Michael [Stone](./02%20Steve%20Stone.md#) said in an [affidavit](./02%20Affidavit.md#) filed in support of a Snohomish County Superior Court search warrant. ^9w9nl

Police have not named [Susann Smith](./01%20Susann%20Smith.md#.md#)'s estranged husband as a suspect in the killing. However, multiple search warrants filed in the case make clear that investigators are scrutinizing his actions around the time of her death.

That includes what they characterize as a misleading story he told investigators about whether he owned a [bicycle](./01%20Bicycle.md#.md#.md#.md#.md#.md#).

"The investigation is ongoing," [Bothell](./04%20Bothell.md#.md#.md#.md#) police Sgt. Ken Seuberlich said Monday. "We are following up on leads and this is just another lead that we have developed."

After [Susann Smith](./01%20Susann%20Smith.md#.md#.md#), 37, was found dead in her home, police questioned the man about his transportation options. He denied owning a [bicycle](./01%20Bicycle.md#.md#.md#.md#.md#), according to court papers. ^e4hsf

A review of the man's credit card bills, however, showed that in late November he bought a [bicycle](./01%20Bicycle.md#.md#.md#.md#.md#.md#.md#.md#.md#.md#) at a store in Seattle.

Last month, detectives obtained an invoice from the sale. It showed that [Susann Smith](./01%20Susann%20Smith.md#.md#.md#.md#)'s husband had purchased a Trek 7.2 FX Disc [bicycle](./01%20Bicycle.md#.md#.md#.md#.md#.md#.md#.md#.md#.md#.md#.md#), the search warrant said. A search of the [Garmin GPS](./02%20Garmin%20GPS.md#) device in the man's [car](./04%20Car.md#) also placed the vehicle near the [bicycle](./01%20Bicycle.md#.md#.md#.md#.md#.md#.md#) store that same afternoon.

"During searches of [Susann Smith](./01%20Susann%20Smith.md#.md#.md#.md#.md#)'s residence and searches of (the man's) property, the Trek [bicycle](./01%20Bicycle.md#.md#.md#.md#.md#.md#.md#.md#) was not located," [Stone](./02%20Steve%20Stone.md#.md#) said in the [affidavit](./02%20Affidavit.md#.md#). Likewise, nobody who knew the man told investigators about the bike.

On [../../10-to-19-Case-Dates/13-Investigation-Dates/2013-03-01 Friday March 1st 2013](./2013-03-01%20Friday%20March%201st%202013.md#), however, a [Bothell](./04%20Bothell.md#.md#.md#.md#.md#) man called police about a [bicycle](./01%20Bicycle.md#.md#.md#.md#.md#.md#.md#.md#.md#) he noticed that was left unattended for several days at businesses and [apartment](./05%20Apartment.md#) complexes around the Canyon Park neighborhood. ^aaoit

Police logged the abandoned [bicycle](./01%20Bicycle.md#) into the [Bothell](./04%20Bothell.md#.md#.md#.md#.md#.md#) police evidence room. ^zl8xk

On [../../10-to-19-Case-Dates/13-Investigation-Dates/2013-04-24 Wednesday April 24th 2013](./2013-04-24%20Wednesday%20April%2024th%202013.md#), a detective checked serial numbers on the [bicycle](./01%20Bicycle.md#.md#) and confirmed that the Trek 7.2 FX Disc [bicycle](./01%20Bicycle.md#.md#.md#.md#.md#.md#.md#.md#.md#.md#.md#) found in March had the same serial number as the one Smith's husband bought in November, the [affidavit](./02%20Affidavit.md#.md#.md#) said. ^yqr41

The [bicycle](./01%20Bicycle.md#.md#.md#) was photographed and packaged and sent to King County's evidence processing laboratory pending court approval to search it for latent prints, [DNA](./04%20DNA.md#) and other trace materials. ^ns3xr

At the time of the killing, the man had been living at an [apartment](./05%20Apartment.md#.md#) just under two miles from [Susann Smith](./01%20Susann%20Smith.md#.md#.md#.md#.md#.md#)'s home, the search warrant [affidavit](./02%20Affidavit.md#.md#.md#.md#) said. He's since moved into the house where she was killed.

Police have distributed fliers in [Susann Smith](./01%20Susann%20Smith.md#.md#.md#.md#.md#.md#.md#)'s neighborhood several times asking for anyone with information to come forward.

_Eric Stevick contributed to this report. Scott North: 425-339-3431, north@heraldnet.com_
