---
title: "04 2013.06.20 - Police nab man having sex outside his murdered wife's house"
date created: Tuesday, August 29th 2023, 5:20:22 pm
date modified: Sunday, September 17th 2023, 9:18:30 pm
---

# 04 2013.06.20 - Police nab man having sex outside his murdered wife's house

[../../10-to-19-Case-Dates/13-Investigation-Dates/2013-06-20 Thursday June 20th 2013](./2013-06-20%20Thursday%20June%2020th%202013.md#)

<https://komonews.com/archive/police-nab-man-having-sex-outside-his-murdered-wifes-house-11-20-2015>

BOTHELL, Wash. -- A [Bothell](./04%20Bothell.md#) man is accused of having sex outside of the very house his estranged wife was murdered in less than six months ago.  

  

Police consider [Alan Smith](./01%20Alan%20Smith.md#) a "person of interest" in the [February murder](http://www.komonews.com/news/local/Medical-examiner-Bothell-mom-was-killed-by-injuries-to-the-head-191452901.html) of his estranged wife, [Susann Smith](./01%20Susann%20Smith.md#).  

  

[Alan Smith](./01%20Alan%20Smith.md#.md#) moved back into the house after the murder, and recently neighbors called police after they heard a woman screaming. ^5cc7u  
When police arrived, they say they found [Alan Smith](./01%20Alan%20Smith.md#.md#.md#) and another woman having sex in the yard. ^3q-8q

  

The woman with [Alan Smith](./01%20Alan%20Smith.md#.md#.md#.md#) that night, [Love Thai](./02%20Love%20Thai.md#), said the story is pretty simple.  

  

"The story is we were there in the corner making sweet love," she said. "I said, 'Hey, you came into our private yard. The cop let us know that a neighbor reported that they saw sexual activity and I looked through and I said, 'Ok we're really sorry.'"  

  

Thai said it would have taken an effort for anyone to see the couple having sex.  

  

"If you're going to look into someone's private property and get upset about it, take ownership of that," she said. "But for you to call police is not OK."  

  

While [Alan Smith](./01%20Alan%20Smith.md#.md#.md#.md#.md#) has not been charged with any crime in relation to his estranged wife's murder, [Love Thai](./02%20Love%20Thai.md#.md#) believes the suspicion that surrounds him is steering the neighborhood's reaction to the recent incident.  

  

"I think they just want to see him for what they want to see him, which is out of fear that he murdered his wife. And he didn't, I'm sorry," she said.  

  

She also said the attitude of residents in the area is taking its toll on the couple.  

  

"What really breaks my heart is that his neighbors haven't come and just cooked him a home-cooked meal," [Love Thai](./02%20Love%20Thai.md#.md#.md#) said. "Help him, he's hurting. He's lost his wife. He's lost his [children](./07%20Children.md#) - -he hasn't seen his [children](./07%20Children.md#) in four months."  

  

No charges were filed for the sexual activity in the yard. ^48s9q  
Neighbors have also complained about nude sunbathing, which [Love Thai](./02%20Love%20Thai.md#.md#.md#.md#) said would also be very hard to see. ^sn-b7

  

[Love Thai](./02%20Love%20Thai.md#.md#.md#.md#.md#) said the couple has found threatening notes left on the property, but she doesn't know who put them there. ^v2gqk
