[[./2015-01-28 Wednesday January 28th 2015|2015-01-28 Wednesday January 28th 2015]]


https://www.heraldnet.com/news/witness-says-suspect-confessed-to-him-that-he-killed-his-wife/

EVERETT — [[./01 Alan Smith|Alan Smith]] allegedly confessed to killing his wife to a man he barely knew and then had the man baptize him hours later.

[[./01 Wendell Morris|Wendell Morris]] Jr. testified Wednesday that [[./01 Alan Smith|Alan Smith]] came to him for help in [[./2013-06 June 2013|2013-06 June 2013]]. ^rw1jh
The two had met at a church potluck a few weeks earlier. Smith [[./01 Alan Smith|Alan Smith]] a suspect in his wife’s killing and his relationship with a mentally ill woman was unraveling. He and the woman recently had been asked not to return to the church that Morris attended.

“I’m walking off the ledge,” [[./01 Wendell Morris|Wendell Morris]] recalled an emotional [[./01 Alan Smith|Alan Smith]] saying as they sat outside a Seattle Starbucks.

[[./01 Wendell Morris|Wendell Morris]] wanted to share God’s teachings with [[./01 Alan Smith|Alan Smith]]. He also wanted to make sure the [[./04 Bothell|Bothell]] man was being truthful with him about the death of [[./01 Alan Smith|Alan Smith]]’s wife.

[[./01 Wendell Morris|Wendell Morris]] pressed [[./01 Alan Smith|Alan Smith]] for an answer during their second meeting.

“‘I want you to know I did it. I did it to her,’” [[./01 Wendell Morris|Wendell Morris]] quoted [[./01%20Alan%20Smith.md#|Alan Smith]] saying during testimony Wednesday. The admission came as the two walked along Lake Union in Seattle, he said.

A couple of days later [[./01 Wendell Morris|Wendell Morris]] called police and repeated the conversation to detectives. [[./01 Alan Smith|Alan Smith]] was arrested that day, four months after [[./01 Susann Smith|Susann Smith]], 37, was found beaten, stabbed and drowned in her [[./04 Bothell|Bothell]] home.

Snohomish County prosecutors are expected to rest Thursday in [[./01%20Alan%20Smith.md#|Alan Smith]]’s first-degree murder trial. His defense attorney agreed to [forgo a jury](http://www.heraldnet.com/article/20150113/NEWS01/150119691) and let Superior Court Linda Krese decide the verdict. [[./01%20Alan%20Smith.md#|Alan Smith]](./01%20Alan%20Smith.md#), 39, faces decades behind bars if convicted.

Prosecutors allege the former [[./01 Boeing|Boeing]] engineer attacked his estranged wife as she slept because their divorce was costing him too much money and he feared that she was going to move back to Germany with their two young [[./07 Children|children]].

[[./01%20Alan%20Smith.md#|Alan Smith]]’s attorneys have said that someone else broke into [[./01 Susann Smith|Susann Smith]]’s house, rummaged through her wallet and then killed her. They point to trace amounts of unidentified [[./04 DNA|DNA]] found at the scene, including on [[./01 Susann Smith|Susann Smith]]’s wrist and the front door.

In [opening statements](http://www.heraldnet.com/article/20150115/NEWS01/150119265) they also asked Krese to scrutinize the circumstances surrounding [[./01%20Alan%20Smith.md#|Alan Smith]]’s conversation with [[./01 Wendell Morris|Wendell Morris]].

The defense had [fought to keep the testimony out](http://www.heraldnet.com/article/20140807/NEWS01/140809303), arguing that the conversation was protected because the man is a licensed minister. [[./01 Wendell Morris|Wendell Morris]] told detectives that he wasn’t acting as a clergyman when [[./01 Alan Smith|Alan Smith]] allegedly made the statements.

[[./01%20Alan%20Smith.md#|Alan Smith]] kept his eyes closed during most of [[./01 Wendell Morris|Wendell Morris]]’ testimony Wednesday.

[[./01 Wendell Morris|Wendell Morris]] said he had been told that [[./01%20Alan%20Smith.md#|Alan Smith]] was under investigation for the [[./2013-02 February 2013|2013-02 February 2013]] killing before they met months later at a potluck. He also had heard that [[./01 Alan Smith|Alan Smith]] had asked to join the Bible study group that [[./01 Wendell Morris|Wendell Morris]] led but the host had declined because of the police and media scrutiny [[./01 Alan Smith|Alan Smith]] was facing.

[[./01 Wendell Morris|Wendell Morris]] agreed to meet with [[./01%20Alan%20Smith.md#|Alan Smith]] and his then-girlfriend, [[./02 Love Thai|Love Thai]], in mid-[[./2013-06 June 2013|2013-06 June 2013]]. The pair were upset that they had been asked not to return to church, not long after they began attending. [[./01 Wendell Morris|Wendell Morris]] said he also wanted to confront [[./01 Alan Smith|Alan Smith]] about his dealings with a younger church member. [[./01 Wendell Morris|Wendell Morris]] was worried that they were a bad influence on the teen.

[[./01 Wendell Morris|Wendell Morris]] and [[./01%20Alan%20Smith.md#|Alan Smith]] met outside a Starbucks. [[./01 Wendell Morris|Wendell Morris]] said he planned to point [[./01 Alan Smith|Alan Smith]] toward God’s teachings for answers and guidance. He confronted [[./01 Alan Smith|Alan Smith]] with the allegations that he was responsible for the slaying as the two sat in [[./01 Alan Smith|Alan Smith]]’s [[./04 Car|car]].

“I don’t know how safe it is to have that conversation here. We need to take a walk,” [[./01 Wendell Morris|Wendell Morris]] recalled [[./01 Alan Smith|Alan Smith]] saying.

The Seattle man was convinced then that [[./01%20Alan%20Smith.md#|Alan Smith]] had murdered his wife. [[./01 Wendell Morris|Wendell Morris]] testified that [[./01 Alan Smith|Alan Smith]] confessed during their walk. He told [[./01 Alan Smith|Alan Smith]] he was proud of him for being truthful. The men eventually made plans to find a church where [[./01 Alan Smith|Alan Smith]] could be baptized.

That didn’t work out so [[./01 Wendell Morris|Wendell Morris]] agreed to baptize [[./01%20Alan%20Smith.md#|Alan Smith]] that night. He also tried to persuade [[./01 Alan Smith|Alan Smith]] to turn himself into police.

On cross examination [[./01 Wendell Morris|Wendell Morris]] said he was convinced before the alleged confession that [[./01%20Alan%20Smith.md#|Alan Smith]] had murdered his wife. Defense attorney Tiffany Mecca pointed out that the two men had spoken for less than 20 minutes before [[./01 Wendell Morris|Wendell Morris]] asked [[./01 Alan Smith|Alan Smith]] about his wife’s death.

Mecca also elicited testimony from [[01 Wendell Morris|Wendell Morris]] that he didn’t tell [Thai](http://www.heraldnet.com/article/20140412/NEWS01/140419710) that her boyfriend had confessed to the killing. The defense attorney also focused in on [[01 Wendell Morris|Wendell Morris]]’ concerns about [[./01 Alan Smith|Alan Smith]](./01%20Wendell%20Morris.md#)(./01%20Wendell%20Morris.md#)(./01%20Wendell%20Morris.md#)(./01%20Wendell%20Morris.md#)(./01%20Wendell%20Morris.md#)(./01%20Wendell%20Morris.md#)(./01%20Wendell%20Morris.md#)(./01%20Wendell%20Morris.md#)(./01%20Wendell%20Morris.md#)(./01%20Wendell%20Morris.md#)(./01%20Wendell%20Morris.md#)(./01%20Wendell%20Morris.md#)(./01%20Wendell%20Morris.md#)(./01%20Wendell%20Morris.md#)(./01%20Wendell%20Morris.md#)(./01%20Wendell%20Morris.md#)(./01%20Wendell%20Morris.md#)(./01%20Wendell%20Morris.md#)(./01%20Wendell%20Morris.md#)(./01%20Wendell%20Morris.md#)(./01%20Wendell%20Morris.md#)(./01%20Wendell%20Morris.md#)(./01%20Wendell%20Morris.md#)’s conversations with the younger church member.

_Diana Hefley: 425-339-3463; [hefley@heraldnet.com](https://www.heraldnet.com/apps/pbcsedit.dll/). Twitter: [@dianahefley](https://www.heraldnet.com/apps/pbcsedit.dll/)._