---
locations: 
---

[@kingFewDetailsDeath2013](@kingFewDetailsDeath2013.md)

[2013-02-14 Thursday February 14th 2013](../../10-19%20Case%20Dates/13%20Investigation%20Dates/2013-02-14%20Thursday%20February%2014th%202013.md)
https://www.heraldnet.com/news/few-details-in-death-of-bothell-woman/

**UPDATE, 1:20 p.m. [2013-02-15 Friday February 15th 2013](../../10-19%20Case%20Dates/13%20Investigation%20Dates/2013-02-15%20Friday%20February%2015th%202013.md):** The victim was identified Friday as [Susann Smith](../../70-79%20People/71%20Victim(s)/01%20Susann%20Smith.md), 37. Updates to follow. ^pnmmr

———————————

BOTHELL — Detectives are staying tight-lipped about the homicide of a [Bothell](../../50-59%20Investigation/52%20Key%20Locations/04%20Bothell.md) woman [found dead](http://www.heraldnet.com/article/20130213/BLOG41/130219938/1131/NEWS08#Police-say-Bothell-woman-died-from-homicidal-violence) at her home earlier this week.

The woman’s two young [children](../../70-79%20People/73%20Family%20and%20Friends/07%20Children.md) have been found safe and were taken into protective custody, according to police and [Child Protective Services](../../70-79%20People/75%20Police%20and%20Detectives/08%20CPS.md). ^mdozi

Police have not released any details about possible suspects or a motive in the killing.

The Herald is not naming the woman until the Snohomish County Medical Examiner’s Office confirms her identity, and her family is formally notified of her death.

That had not happened as of Thursday evening, according to police.

The woman’s body was found Tuesday morning in the 200 block of [240th Street SW](geo:47.7814081,-122.3480898) after her employers called police when she didn’t show up for work. ^0xnnr

Investigators spent the past few days at the scene collecting evidence, Sgt. Cedric Collins said Thursday. They also obtained a judge’s permission to search the home.

Court papers show the woman who lived at the home moved to the U.S. from Germany about eight years ago. She and her husband were in the process of divorcing. ^1q5ea

_Reporter Diana Hefley contributed to this story._

_Rikki King: 425-339-3449; rking@heraldnet.com_